



 



 


 

		By: Lucio, et al.
S.B. No. 1978


 


 
(Cyrier)


 


 
 
										





 



 		
			

A BILL TO BE ENTITLED




 
			

AN ACT




 
			
relating to a voluntary contribution to help feed hungry Texans 



 
			
when a person applies for a hunting license.



 
			
       BE IT ENACTED BY THE LEGISLATURE OF THE STATE OF TEXAS:



 
			
       SECTION 1.  Chapter 42, Parks and Wildlife Code, is amended 



 
			
by adding Section 42.011 to read as follows:



 
			
       Sec. 42.011.  VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTION TO HELP FEED HUNGRY 



 
			
TEXANS.  (a)  When a person applies for a hunting license of any 



 
			
type under this chapter, the person may contribute $1 or more to a 



 
			
nonprofit organization, designated by the commission, whose 



 
			
purposes include the administration of a statewide program that 



 
			
provides hunters with a way to donate legally harvested deer to 



 
			
local food assistance providers.  The program must include the 



 
			
recruitment of meat processors who, for a nominal fee to cover 



 
			
processing costs, process and package the venison and contact the 



 
			
food assistance providers to pick up the venison.



 
			
       (b)  The department shall:



 
			
             (1)  include space on each application for a hunting 



 
			
license that allows a person applying for the license to indicate 



 
			
the amount that the person is voluntarily contributing to the 



 
			
nonprofit organization; and



 
			
             (2)  provide an opportunity for a person to contribute 



 
			
to the nonprofit organization during the application process for a 



 
			
hunting license on the department's Internet website.



 
			
       (c)  After deducting the department's administrative costs, 



 
			
the department shall hold in trust the remainder of the amount a 



 
			
person contributes under this section to the nonprofit 



 
			
organization.  Not later than November 1 of each year, the 



 
			
department shall send the money held in trust to the nonprofit 



 
			
organization.



 
			
       (d)  Money received by the nonprofit organization under this 



 
			
section may be used only to administer, operate, support, and 



 
			
promote the program described by Subsection (a).



 
			
       (e)  The nonprofit organization shall submit an annual 



 
			
report to the legislature and the department that includes the 



 
			
total dollar amount of contributions received by the organization 



 
			
under this section.



 
			
       (f)  The commission may adopt rules to implement this 



 
			
section, including rules related to processes for the selection, 



 
			
inspection, and periodic review of the nonprofit organization.



 
			
       SECTION 2.  The commission shall designate a nonprofit 



 
			
organization to receive the donations under Section 42.011, Parks 



 
			
and Wildlife Code, as added by this Act, not later than September 



 
			
15, 2015.



 
			
       SECTION 3.  This Act takes effect immediately if it receives 



 
			
a vote of two-thirds of all the members elected to each house, as 



 
			
provided by Section 39, Article III, Texas Constitution.  If this 



 
			
Act does not receive the vote necessary for immediate effect, this 



 
			
Act takes effect September 1, 2015.


