




 
 




P.L.2017,
CHAPTER 164, approved July 21, 2017
Assembly, No. 3463
 




An Act concerning the Departments of Corrections and
Human Services and amending P.L.1938, c.380.
 
     Be It Enacted by the Senate and General Assembly of the State of New
Jersey:
 
     1.    Section 1 of P.L.1938, c.380 (C.30:4-67.1) is
amended to read as follows:
     1.    The chief executive officer of any institution
coming within the jurisdiction of the [Department
of Institutions and Agencies]
Departments of Corrections or Human Services is hereby empowered  to
deposit and maintain the funds of any inmate or person receiving services
from the Department of Human Services, as applicable, in a special fund for
the use  and benefit of [said] the
inmate or person, or for the payment of [his] the inmate's or person's
maintenance in [said] the 
institution, as a court of competent jurisdiction may by order direct.  A 
general ledger shall be maintained in the office of each institution which 
shall contain a separate account for each inmate or person and indicate
the amount on deposit for [him] the
inmate or person.
     Any interest paid by a bank or trust company wherein [said] the
fund is maintained  may be utilized by the board of managers of [said] the
institution for the use, benefit, and general welfare of the inmate
population as a whole or for the use, benefit, and general welfare of the
person receiving services from the Department of Human Services, as applicable.
(cf: P.L.1938, c. 380, s.1)
 
     2.    This act shall take effect immediately.
 
 
STATEMENT
 
     This bill amends P.L.1938, c.380 (C.30:4-67.1) to
update language and references of the former Department of Institutions and
Agencies to the Departments of Corrections (DOC) and Human Services (DHS). 
     The provisions of P.L.1976, c.98 (C.30:1B-1 et seq.) established
DOC and transferred specific functions, powers, and duties of the Department of
Institutions and Agencies to DOC (the custody, care, and discipline of adult
offenders committed to State correctional institutions or on parole; the
treatment and training of adult offenders in local correctional and detention
facilities; and cooperation with the other law enforcement to encourage a more
unified system of criminal justice).
     The provisions of P.L.1976, c.98 also provide that the
functions, powers, and duties of the Department of Institutions and Agencies
were continued, and the department was renamed DHS.  This bill amends the law
to reflect the establishment of the new departments.  
     The bill also amends P.L.1938, c.380 to refer to an
"inmate" or "a person receiving services from DHS," rather than using the term
"inmate" to refer to both categories of individuals for whom DOC and DHS are
empowered to deposit and maintain funds for the person's use and benefit, or to
pay for the person's maintenance. 
 
 
                                
 
     Updates references to DOC and DHS and refers to persons
receiving services from DHS. 

