

SENATE, No. 1723 

STATE OF NEW JERSEY
218th LEGISLATURE
  
INTRODUCED FEBRUARY 5, 2018
 




 
Sponsored by:
Senator  SAMUEL D. THOMPSON
District 12 (Burlington, Middlesex, Monmouth and Ocean)
 
 
 
 
SYNOPSIS
     Directs Department of Treasury to transfer to
Department of Environmental Protection as surplus property certain land and
improvements thereon in Township of Wall, County of Monmouth. 
 
CURRENT VERSION OF TEXT 
     As introduced.
   




An Act directing the Department of the Treasury to
transfer as surplus property certain land and improvements thereon in the
Township of Wall, County of Monmouth to the Department of Environmental
Protection and supplementing P.L.1966, c.54 (C.13:1B.100 et seq.).
 
     Be It
Enacted by the Senate and General Assembly of
the State of New Jersey:
 
     1.    a.  Notwithstanding the
provisions of any other law, rule or regulation, or policy circular letter to
the contrary, the Department of the Treasury shall convey to the Department of
Environmental Protection all of the State's interest in the property known as
the Arthur Brisbane Child Treatment Center, that consists of 386+ acres
of land and improvements thereon, including a main house, two cottages, and a
school building, designated as 4240 Atlantic Avenue, Block 952, Lot 1, in the
Township of Wall, County of Monmouth, which land and improvements are declared
surplus to the needs of the Department of the Treasury.  The Department of
Environmental Protection shall provide that the Division of Parks and Forestry
shall have responsibility for the property and improvements.  The division
shall enter into an agreement with a not-for-profit organization, having
appropriate expertise, to establish and operate on the premises a New Jersey
Fire Museum and a New Jersey Fallen Firefighters Memorial.  
     b.    The conveyance
authorized by subsection a. of this section shall be executed in accordance
with terms and conditions approved by the State House Commission.
 
     2.    This act shall take
effect immediately.
 
 
STATEMENT
 
     This bill directs the
Department of the Treasury to convey to the Department of Environmental
Protection, as surplus real property, the State's interest in the Arthur
Brisbane Child Treatment Center, consisting of 386+ acres of land and
improvements, including a main house, two cottages, and a school building, in
Wall Township, Monmouth County.  The Brisbane Center is closed and is no longer
used as a child treatment center.
     The Department of
Environmental Protection will provide that the Division of Parks and Forestry
will be responsible for the property and improvements.  The division will enter
into an agreement with a not-for-profit organization, having appropriate
expertise, to establish and operate on the premises a New Jersey Fire Museum
and a New Jersey Fallen Firefighters Memorial.  
     The conveyance will be
executed in accordance with terms and conditions approved by the State House
Commission. 

