





<![endif]-->






HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES


H.B. NO.


2270




TWENTY-NINTH LEGISLATURE, 2018


H.D. 1




STATE OF HAWAII


 




 


 




 




 
 



A BILL FOR AN ACT
 
 
RELATING TO
HOMELESSNESS.
 
 
BE IT ENACTED BY THE LEGISLATURE OF THE STATE OF HAWAII:
 




     SECTION
1.  (a) 
The department of human services shall establish ohana zones where
homeless persons may reside in the State.
     (b)  The location of each ohana zone shall be
designated by the land use commission.
     (c)  Each ohana zone shall be furnished with
appropriate hygiene facilities and security and social services as deemed
necessary.
     (d)  The peaceful consumption of alcoholic
beverages by persons twenty-one years of age or older shall be permitted in ohana
zones.
     (e)  Animal companions of homeless persons shall
be permitted in ohana zones.
     (f)  The department shall maintain and operate ohana
zones until the legislature determines that homelessness is no longer a crisis
in the State.
     (g)  The department shall consider the following
when establishing ohana zones:
     (1)  The target population to be served;
     (2)  Recommendations of potential sites to be
designated as ohana zones; provided that the sites shall be state lands
designated within the urban district by the land use commission;
     (3)  The type of facilities or dwelling units
permitted within an ohana zone, including the use of modular structures; and
     (4)  Strategies to transition inhabitants of an ohana
zone to permanent housing that utilizes the housing first approach.
     (h)  The department shall adopt rules, pursuant to
chapter 91, Hawaii Revised Statutes, necessary to implement this section.
     (i)  The department may employ, without regard to
chapter 76, Hawaii Revised Statutes, and at pleasure dismiss persons it finds
necessary to assist with the operation of establishing ohana zones.
     (j)  The State shall not be liable for any loss,
damage, injury, or death arising from or occurring in an ohana zone.
     (k)  For the purposes of this section, "Ohana
zone" means a place where homeless individuals may get basic needs
including food, shelter, bathrooms, showers, and other hygiene needs addressed
and where wrap-around services, social health care services, transportation,
and other similar services are offered.
     SECTION
2.  There is appropriated out of the
general revenues of the State of Hawaii the sum of
$         or so much thereof as may be
necessary for fiscal year 2018-2019 for the establishment of ohana zones where
homeless persons may reside in the State.
     The sum
appropriated shall be expended by the department of human services for the
purposes of this Act.
     SECTION
3.  This Act shall take effect on July 1,
3000.




 


 
Report Title:
Department of Human Services; Homelessness; Ohana Zones;
Appropriation
 
Description:
Requires the Department of Human Services to establish ohana
zones where homeless persons may reside. 
Appropriates funds.  (HB2270 HD1)
 
 
 
The summary description
of legislation appearing on this page is for informational purposes only and is
not legislation or evidence of legislative intent.
 

