HLS 18RS-289 ORIG INAL
2018 Reg ular Session
HOUSE B ILL NO. 67
BY REPRESENTATI VE BAGL EY
DISTRI CTS/F IRE PROTECT:  Authoriz es DeSoto Parish Fire Protection District No. 2 to
levy certain service charg es
1 AN ACT
2 To amend and reenact R.S. 40:1502.16(A), relative to the assessment of service charg es by
3 the governing  author ity of DeSoto Fire Protection District No. 2; to provide with
4 respect to the collection of the service charge and the enforcement of the collection;
5 to provide for use of the proceeds of such charg es; and to provide for related matters.
6 Notice of intention to introd uce this Act has been published
7 as provided by Article III, Section 13 of the Constitution of
8 Louisiana.
9 Be it enacted by  the L egislature of L ouisiana:
10 Section 1.  R.S. 40:1502.16(A) is hereby  amended and reenacted to read as follows:
11 ยง1502.16.  Service charg e authoriz ed for DeSoto Parish; assessment and collection
12 A.  In addition to the authority  granted pursuant to R.S. 40:1502, the
13 governing authority  of DeSoto Parish Fire Protection District No. 2 and DeSoto
14 Parish Fire Protection District No. 3 may establi sh a service charg e or rates of
15 service charg es to be assessed persons owning each residential or commercial
16 structure, whether occupied or unoccupied, located wholly  or partly  within the
17 boundaries of the respective fire protection distri ct, subject to the provisions of
18 Subsectio n B of this Section.  For purposes of this Section, each residential or
19 commercial unit in a struc ture and each housing  unit within a multiple dwelling
Page 1 of 3
CODI NG:  Words in struck throug h type are deletions from existing  law; words underscored
are additions.
HLS 18RS-289 ORIG INAL
HB NO. 67
1 structure shall be considered a separate structure, and a mobile home, as defined in
2 R.S. 9:1149.2, shall be considered a structure.  Such service charg es or rates of
3 service charg es shall be framed so as to cover and shall be used for the costs of any
4 or all fire protection and emerg ency medical transportation and emerg ency services
5 incidental thereto.
6 *          *          *
DIGEST
The digest printed below was prepared by House Legislative Services.  It constitutes no part
of the legislative instrument.  The keyword, one-liner, abstract, and digest do not constitute
part of the law or proof or indicia of leg islative intent.  [ R.S. 1:13(B ) and 24:177(E)]
HB 67 Orig inal 2018 Reg ular Session Bagley
Abstract:   Authoriz es the governing authority  of DeSoto Parish Fire Protection District
No. 2 to establish a service charg e assessed on persons owning  residential or
commercial structures; provides for the collection and enforcement of such service
charg e.
Present law (R.S. 40:1502) authoriz es the governing  authority  of any fire protection district
in DeSoto Parish to establish, assess, and collect a service charg e to fund the purchase of fire
protection equipment, maintenance, and operation of fire protection facilities and equipment,
and obtaining  water for fire protection purchases.
Present law (R.S. 40:1502.16) grants the following  additional authority  to DeSoto Parish
Fire Protection District No. 3:
(1) Authoriz es the district, subject to voter approval, to establish a service charg e for
each residential or commercial structure located within the boundaries of the district. 
Further provides that the amount of such service charg es shall be framed so as to
cover and used to pay the costs of fire protection and emerg ency medical
transportation and all emerg ency services incidental thereto.
(2) Authoriz es the governing  authority  to use any reasonable means to collect and
enforce the collection of such service charg es, including  the assessor carry ing the
charg es on the tax rolls and the sheriff collecting  the charg es at the same time as ad
valorem taxes are collected and with the same authority  as such taxes are collected. 
Authoriz es the governing  authority  to compensate the sheriff and assessor for
collecting  by mutual ag reement.
(3) Authoriz es the governin g authority  to place liens on property  for unpaid fire
protection service charg es.  Provides that service charg e oblig ations prime all other
liens, mortg ages, and privileg es against the property  except liens previously  filed for
taxes or local and special assessments.
(4) Authoriz es the governing  authority  to recover unpaid charg es, costs of court, and
attorney  fees by  ordinary  process in the 42nd J udicial District Court.
(5) Authoriz es the governing  authority  to provide, by resolution, for interest on the
unpaid charg es, which shall be paid prior to cancellation of the lien.
Page 2 of 3
CODI NG:  Words in struck throug h type are deletions from existing  law; words underscored
are additions.
HLS 18RS-289 ORIG INAL
HB NO. 67
Proposed law grants the additional authorities granted to DeSoto Parish Fire Protection No. 3
to DeSoto Parish F ire Protection District No. 2; otherwise retains present law.
(Amends R.S. 40:1502.16(A))
Page 3 of 3
CODI NG:  Words in struck throug h type are deletions from existing  law; words underscored
are additions.
