SLS 18RS-676 ENG ROSSED
2018 Reg ular Session
SENATE B ILL NO. 285
BY SENATOR GARY SMI TH 
HEAL TH/ACC INSURANCE.  Prohibits a health insurance issuer from deny ing a nonopioid
prescription in favor of an opioid prescription. (8/1/18)
1 AN ACT
2 To enact R.S. 22:1060.7, relative to prescriptions for chronic pain; to prohibit the denial of
3 coverag e for a nonopioid prescription in favor of an opioid prescription; to provide
4 with respect to opioid prescriptions deemed medically  necessary  and prescribed by
5 a licensed phy sician; and to provide for related matters.
6 Be it enacted by  the L egislature of L ouisiana:
7 Section 1.  R.S. 22:1060.7 is hereby  enacted to read as follows:
8 ยง1060.7.  P rescription m edication f or chronic pain
9 A.  Notw ithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, when a
10 licensed physician prescribes a nonopioid medication for the treatme nt of
11 chronic pain, it shall be unlaw ful for a health insurance issuer to deny coverage
12 of the nonopioid prescription drug in f avor of  an opioid prescription drug.
13 B.  When an opioid prescription is deemed medically necessary and
14 prescribed by a licensed physician, it shall be unlaw ful for an insurer to deny
15 a prescribed medication and attem pt to substitute an alternative medication
16 that requires any of  the f ollow ing:
17 (1) An increased num ber of  pills per prescription.
Page 1 of 3
Coding : Words which are struck throug h are deletions from existing  law;
words in boldf ace type and underscored  are additions.
SB NO. 285SLS 18RS-676 ENG ROSSED
1 (2) A higher Drug Enforcem ent Administration schedule medication
2 than the one prescribed.
3 (3)  The substitution of an extended release medication that does not
4 have defined abuse deterrent properties for a prescription of a medication that
5 does have def ined abuse deterrent properties.
The original instrument was prepared by Chery l Cooper. The following
digest, which does not constitute a part of the legislative instrument, was
prepared by  Christine Arbo Peck.
DIGEST
SB 285 Eng rossed 2018 Reg ular Session Gary  Smith
Present law defines "health insurance issuer"  as an entity that offers a health benefit plan
throug h a policy , contract, or certificate of insurance subject to state law that reg ulates the
business of insurance.
Present law defines " prescription drug " as:
(1) A substance for which federal or state law requires a prescription before the
substance may  be leg ally dispensed to the public.
(2) A drug or device that under federal law is required, before being  dispensed or
delivered, to be labeled with the statement: "Caution: Federal law prohibits
dispensing  without prescription"  or "Rx only" or another legend that complies with
federal law. 
(3) A drug or device that is required by federal or state statute or regulation to be
dispensed on prescriptions or that is restricted to use by a physician or other
authoriz ed prescriber.
Proposed law prohibits a health insurance issuer from  denying coverag e of a non-opioid
prescription drug  in favor of an opioid prescription drug .
Proposed law provides when opioids are deemed medically  necessary  by a licensed
physician, it shall be unlawful for an insurer to deny  a physician prescribed medication and
recommend an alternative prescription which requires any  of the following :
(1) An increased number of pills per prescription.
(2) A higher Drug  Enforcement Administration schedule medication than the one
prescribed.
(3) The substitution of an extended release medication that does not have defined abuse
deterrent properties for a prescription of a medication that does have defined abuse
deterrent properties.
Effective Aug ust 1, 2018.
(Adds R.S. 22:1060.7)
Page 2 of 3
Coding : Words which are struck throug h are deletions from existing  law;
words in boldf ace type and underscored  are additions.
SB NO. 285SLS 18RS-676 ENG ROSSED
Summary  of Amendments Adopted by  Senate
Committee Amendments Proposed by Senate Committee on Health and Welfare to
the orig inal bill
1. Clarifies that a health insurance issuer may not substitute a prescription with
an extended release medication that does not have defined abuse deterre nt
properties for a prescription of a medication that does have defined abuse
deterrent properties.
Page 3 of 3
Coding : Words which are struck throug h are deletions from existing  law;
words in boldf ace type and underscored  are additions.
