



General Assembly

 

Substitute Bill No. 5445 


February Session, 2018

 

*_____HB05445ED____032618____*

AN ACT CONCERNING THE DEVELOPMENT OF POLICIES REGARDING THE PROVISION OF ALTERNATIVE EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES FOR EXPELLED STUDENTS BY BOARDS OF EDUCATION. 
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Assembly convened:
Section 1. (NEW) (Effective July 1, 2018) For the school year commencing July 1, 2018, and each school year thereafter, each local and regional board of education shall develop and implement a policy regarding the provision of alternative educational opportunities, offered pursuant to subsection (d) of section 10-233d of the general statutes, as amended by this act. The provision of alternative educational opportunities under such policy shall exhibit the following characteristics: (1) A whole student approach, (2) a curriculum aligned with guidelines approved by the State Board of Education, (3) high expectations, and (4) research-based practices. Each such board shall submit such policy annually to the Department of Education.
Sec. 2. Subsection (d) of section 10-233d of the 2018 supplement to the general statutes is repealed and the following is substituted in lieu thereof (Effective July 1, 2018):
(d) No local or regional board of education is required to offer an alternative educational opportunity, except in accordance with this section. Any pupil under sixteen years of age who is expelled shall be offered an alternative educational opportunity, which shall be (1) alternative education, as defined by section 10-74j, with an individualized learning plan, if such board provides such alternative education, or (2) in accordance with the [standards adopted by the State Board of Education, pursuant to section 10-233o] policy developed by such board pursuant to section 1 of this act, during the period of expulsion, provided any parent or guardian of such pupil who does not choose to have his or her child enrolled in an alternative educational opportunity shall not be subject to the provisions of section 10-184. Any pupil expelled for the first time who is between the ages of sixteen and eighteen and who wishes to continue his or her education shall be offered such an alternative educational opportunity if he or she complies with conditions established by his or her local or regional board of education. Such alternative educational opportunity may include, but shall not be limited to, the placement of a pupil who is at least seventeen years of age in an adult education program pursuant to section 10-69. Any pupil participating in any such adult education program during a period of expulsion shall not be required to withdraw from school under section 10-184. A local or regional board of education shall count the expulsion of a pupil when he was under sixteen years of age for purposes of determining whether an alternative educational opportunity is required for such pupil when he is between the ages of sixteen and eighteen. A local or regional board of education may offer an alternative educational opportunity to a pupil for whom such alternative educational opportunity is not required pursuant to this section.
Sec. 3. Section 10-233o of the 2018 supplement to the general statutes is repealed. (Effective from passage)







This act shall take effect as follows and shall amend the following sections:


Section 1

July 1, 2018

New section


Sec. 2

July 1, 2018

10-233d(d)


Sec. 3

from passage

Repealer section




ED

Joint Favorable Subst.

 



