

ASSEMBLY, No. 5184 

STATE OF NEW JERSEY
217th LEGISLATURE

INTRODUCED AUGUST 24, 2017
 




 
Sponsored by:
Assemblyman  JOHN F. MCKEON
District 27 (Essex and Morris)
 
 
 
 
SYNOPSIS
     Provides for BPU incentives for district energy
collaboratives and certain combined heat and power facilities.
 
CURRENT VERSION OF TEXT 
     As introduced.
 




An Act concerning district energy collaboratives, certain
combined heat and power facilities, and amending and supplementing P.L.1999,
c.23.
 
     Be It
Enacted by the Senate and General Assembly of
the State of New Jersey:
 
     1.  Section 3 of P.L.1999,
c.23 (C.48:3-51) is amended to read as follows:  
     3.    As used in P.L.1999,
c.23 (C.48:3-49 et al.):
     "Assignee" means a
person to which an electric public utility or another assignee assigns, sells,
or transfers, other than as security, all or a portion of its right to or
interest in bondable transition property.  Except as specifically provided in
P.L.1999, c.23 (C.48:3-49 et al.), an assignee shall not be subject to the
public utility requirements of Title 48 or any rules or regulations adopted
pursuant thereto.
     "Base load electric power
generation facility" means an electric power generation facility intended
to be operated at a greater than 50 percent capacity factor including, but not
limited to, a combined cycle power facility and a combined heat and power facility.
     "Base residual
auction" means the auction conducted by PJM, as part of PJM's reliability
pricing model, three years prior to the start of the delivery year to secure
electrical capacity as necessary to satisfy the capacity requirements for that
delivery year.
     "Basic gas supply
service" means gas supply service that is provided to any customer that
has not chosen an alternative gas supplier, whether or not the customer has
received offers as to competitive supply options, including, but not limited to,
any customer that cannot obtain such service for any reason, including
non-payment for services.  Basic gas supply service is not a competitive
service and shall be fully regulated by the board.
     "Basic generation
service" or "BGS" means electric generation service that is
provided, to any customer that has not chosen an alternative electric power
supplier, whether or not the customer has received offers for competitive
supply options, including, but not limited to, any customer that cannot obtain
such service from an electric power supplier for any reason, including
non-payment for services.  Basic generation service is not a competitive
service and shall be fully regulated by the board.
     "Basic generation service
provider" or "provider" means a provider of basic generation
service.
     "Basic generation service
transition costs" means the amount by which the payments by an electric
public utility for the procurement of power for basic generation service and
related ancillary and administrative costs exceeds the net revenues from the
basic generation service charge established by the board pursuant to section 9
of P.L.1999, c.23 (C.48:3-57) during the transition period, together with
interest on the balance at the board-approved rate, that is reflected in a deferred
balance account approved by the board in an order addressing the electric
public utility's unbundled rates, stranded costs, and restructuring filings
pursuant to P.L.1999, c.23 (C.48:3-49 et al.).  Basic generation service
transition costs shall include, but are not limited to, costs of purchases from
the spot market, bilateral contracts, contracts with non-utility generators,
parting contracts with the purchaser of the electric public utility's divested
generation assets, short-term advance purchases, and financial instruments such
as hedging, forward contracts, and options.  Basic generation service
transition costs shall also include the payments by an electric public utility
pursuant to a competitive procurement process for basic generation service supply
during the transition period, and costs of any such process used to procure the
basic generation service supply.
     "Board" means the
New Jersey Board of Public Utilities or any successor agency.
     "Bondable stranded
costs" means any stranded costs or basic generation service transition
costs of an electric public utility approved by the board for recovery pursuant
to the provisions of P.L.1999, c.23 (C.48:3-49 et al.), together with, as
approved by the board: (1) the cost of retiring existing debt or equity capital
of the electric public utility, including accrued interest, premium and other
fees, costs, and charges relating thereto, with the proceeds of the financing
of bondable transition property; (2) if requested by an electric public utility
in its application for a bondable stranded costs rate order, federal, State and
local tax liabilities associated with stranded costs recovery, basic generation
service transition cost recovery, or the transfer or financing of the property,
or both, including taxes, whose recovery period is modified by the effect of a
stranded costs recovery order, a bondable stranded costs rate order, or both;
and (3) the costs incurred to issue, service or refinance transition bonds,
including interest, acquisition or redemption premium, and other financing
costs, whether paid upon issuance or over the life of the transition bonds,
including, but not limited to, credit enhancements, service charges,
overcollateralization, interest rate cap, swap or collar, yield maintenance,
maturity guarantee or other hedging agreements, equity investments, operating
costs, and other related fees, costs, and charges, or to assign, sell, or
otherwise transfer bondable transition property.
     "Bondable stranded costs
rate order" means one or more irrevocable written orders issued by the
board pursuant to P.L.1999, c.23 (C.48:3-49 et al.) which determines the amount
of bondable stranded costs and the initial amount of transition bond charges
authorized to be imposed to recover the bondable stranded costs, including the
costs to be financed from the proceeds of the transition bonds, as well as
on-going costs associated with servicing and credit enhancing the transition
bonds, and provides the electric public utility specific authority to issue or
cause to be issued, directly or indirectly, transition bonds through a
financing entity and related matters as provided in P.L.1999, c.23 (C.48:3-49
et al.), which order shall become effective immediately upon the written
consent of the related electric public utility to the order as provided in
P.L.1999, c.23 (C.48:3-49 et al.).
     "Bondable transition
property" means the property consisting of the irrevocable right to
charge, collect, and receive, and be paid from collections of, transition bond
charges in the amount necessary to provide for the full recovery of bondable
stranded costs which are determined to be recoverable in a bondable stranded
costs rate order, all rights of the related electric public utility under the
bondable stranded costs rate order including, without limitation, all rights to
obtain periodic adjustments of the related transition bond charges pursuant to
subsection b. of section 15 of P.L.1999, c.23 (C.48:3-64), and all revenues,
collections, payments, money, and proceeds arising under, or with respect to,
all of the foregoing.
     "British thermal
unit" or "Btu" means the amount of heat required to increase the
temperature of one pound of water by one degree Fahrenheit.
     "Broker" means a
duly licensed electric power supplier that assumes the contractual and legal
responsibility for the sale of electric generation service, transmission, or
other services to end-use retail customers, but does not take title to any of
the power sold, or a duly licensed gas supplier that assumes the contractual and
legal obligation to provide gas supply service to end-use retail customers, but
does not take title to the gas.
     "Brownfield" means
any former or current commercial or industrial site that is currently vacant or
underutilized and on which there has been, or there is suspected to have been,
a discharge of a contaminant.
     "Buydown" means an
arrangement or arrangements involving the buyer and seller in a given power
purchase contract and, in some cases third parties, for consideration to be
given by the buyer in order to effectuate a reduction in the pricing, or the
restructuring of other terms to reduce the overall cost of the power contract,
for the remaining succeeding period of the purchased power arrangement or
arrangements.
     "Buyout" means an
arrangement or arrangements involving the buyer and seller in a given power
purchase contract and, in some cases third parties, for consideration to be
given by the buyer in order to effectuate a termination of such power purchase
contract.
     "Class I renewable energy"
means electric energy produced from solar technologies, photovoltaic
technologies, wind energy, fuel cells, geothermal technologies, wave or tidal
action, small scale hydropower facilities with a capacity of three megawatts or
less and put into service after the effective date of P.L.2012, c.24, and
methane gas from landfills or a biomass facility, provided that the biomass is
cultivated and harvested in a sustainable manner.
     "Class II renewable
energy" means electric energy produced at a hydropower facility with a
capacity of greater than three megawatts, but less than 30 megawatts, or a
resource recovery facility, provided that the facility is located where retail
competition is permitted and provided further that the Commissioner of
Environmental Protection has determined that the facility meets the highest
environmental standards and minimizes any impacts to the environment and local
communities. Class II renewable energy shall not include electric energy
produced at a hydropower facility with a capacity of greater than 30 megawatts
on or after the effective date of P.L.2015, c.51.
     "Co-generation"
means the sequential production of electricity and steam or other forms of
useful energy used for industrial or commercial heating and cooling purposes.
     "Combined cycle power
facility" means a generation facility that combines two or more
thermodynamic cycles, by producing electric power via the combustion of fuel
and then routing the resulting waste heat by-product to a conventional boiler
or to a heat recovery steam generator for use by a steam turbine to produce
electric power, thereby increasing the overall efficiency of the generating
facility.
     "Combined heat and power
facility" or "co-generation facility" means a generation
facility which produces electric energy and steam or other forms of useful
energy such as heat, which are used for industrial or commercial heating or
cooling purposes.  A combined heat and power facility or co-generation facility
shall not be considered a public utility.
     ["Competitive service"
means any service offered by an electric public utility or a gas public utility
that the board determines to be competitive pursuant to section 8 or section 10
of P.L.1999, c.23 (C.48:3-56 or C.48:3-58) or that is not regulated by the board.]
     "Commercial and
industrial energy pricing class customer" or "CIEP class
customer" means that group of non-residential customers with high peak
demand, as determined by periodic board order, which either is eligible or
which would be eligible, as determined by periodic board order, to receive
funds from the Retail Margin Fund established pursuant to section 9 of
P.L.1999, c.23 (C.48:3-57) and for which basic generation service is
hourly-priced.
     "Competitive
service" means any service offered by an electric public utility or a gas
public utility that the board determines to be competitive pursuant to section
8 or section 10 of P.L.1999, c.23 (C.48:3-56 or C.48:3-58) or that is not
regulated by the board.
     "Comprehensive resource
analysis" means an analysis including, but not limited to, an assessment
of existing market barriers to the implementation of energy efficiency and
renewable technologies that are not or cannot be delivered to customers through
a competitive marketplace.
     "Connected to the
distribution system" means, for a solar electric power generation
facility, that the facility is: (1) connected to a net metering customer's side
of a meter, regardless of the voltage at which that customer connects to the
electric grid; (2) an on-site generation facility; (3) qualified for net
metering aggregation as provided pursuant to paragraph (4) of subsection e. of
section 38 of P.L.1999, c.23 (C.48:3-87); (4) owned or operated by an electric
public utility and approved by the board pursuant to section 13 of P.L.2007,
c.340 (C.48:3-98.1); (5) directly connected to the electric grid at 69
kilovolts or less, regardless of how an electric public utility classifies that
portion of its electric grid, and is designated as "connected to the
distribution system" by the board pursuant to subsections q. through s. of
section 38 of P.L.1999, c.23 (C.48:3-87); or (6) is certified by the board, in
consultation with the Department of Environmental Protection, as being located
on a brownfield, on an area of historic fill, or on a properly closed sanitary
landfill facility.  Any solar electric power generation facility, other than
that of a net metering customer on the customer's side of the meter, connected
above 69 kilovolts shall not be considered connected to the distribution
system.
     "Customer" means any
person that is an end user and is connected to any part of the transmission and
distribution system within an electric public utility's service territory or a
gas public utility's service territory within this State.
     "Customer account
service" means metering, billing, or such other administrative activity
associated with maintaining a customer account.
     "Delivery year" or
"DY" means the 12-month period from June 1st through May 31st,
numbered according to the calendar year in which it ends.
     "Demand side
management" means the management of customer demand for energy service
through the implementation of cost-effective energy efficiency technologies,
including, but not limited to, installed conservation, load management, and energy
efficiency measures on and in the residential, commercial, industrial,
institutional, and governmental premises and facilities in this State.
     "District energy
collaborative" or "DEC" means a microgrid designed and operated to achieve a
sustainable, secure, and cost-effective electric generation and distribution
system while providing Class I and Class II renewable energy as backup energy
and that has been established after the effective date of P.L.    , c.   
(C.        ) (pending before the Legislature as this bill), that generates
electricity for sale into the regional electric grid managed by PJM, is
licensed by the board, and is not an electric public utility.
     "Electric generation
service" means the provision of retail electric energy and capacity which
is generated off-site from the location at which the consumption of such
electric energy and capacity is metered for retail billing purposes, including
agreements and arrangements related thereto.
     "Electric power
generator" means an entity that proposes to construct, own, lease, or
operate, or currently owns, leases, or operates, an electric power production
facility that will sell or does sell at least 90 percent of its output, either
directly or through a marketer, to a customer or customers located at sites
that are not on or contiguous to the site on which the facility will be located
or is located.  The designation of an entity as an electric power generator for
the purposes of P.L.1999, c.23 (C.48:3-49 et al.) shall not, in and of itself, affect
the entity's status as an exempt wholesale generator under the Public Utility
Holding Company Act of 1935, 15 U.S.C. s.79 et seq., or its successor act.
     "Electric power
supplier" means a person or entity that is duly licensed pursuant to the
provisions of P.L.1999, c.23 (C.48:3-49 et al.) to offer and to assume the
contractual and legal responsibility to provide electric generation service to
retail customers, and includes load serving entities, marketers, and brokers
that offer or provide electric generation service to retail customers. The term
excludes an electric public utility that provides electric generation service
only as a basic generation service pursuant to section 9 of P.L.1999, c.23
(C.48:3-57).
     "Electric public
utility" means a public utility, as that term is defined in R.S.48:2-13,
that transmits and distributes electricity to end users within this State.
     "Electric related
service" means a service that is directly related to the consumption of
electricity by an end user, including, but not limited to, the installation of
demand side management measures at the end user's premises, the maintenance,
repair, or replacement of appliances, lighting, motors, or other
energy-consuming devices at the end user's premises, and the provision of energy
consumption measurement and billing services.
     "Electronic
signature" means an electronic sound, symbol, or process, attached to, or
logically associated with, a contract or other record, and executed or adopted
by a person with the intent to sign the record.
     "Eligible generator"
means a developer of a base load or mid-merit electric power generation
facility including, but not limited to, an on-site generation facility that
qualifies as a capacity resource under PJM criteria and that commences construction
after the effective date of P.L.2011, c.9 (C.48:3-98.2 et al.).
     "Energy agent" means
a person that is duly registered pursuant to the provisions of P.L.1999, c.23
(C.48:3-49 et al.), that arranges the sale of retail electricity or electric
related services, or retail gas supply or gas related services, between
government aggregators or private aggregators and electric power suppliers or
gas suppliers, but does not take title to the electric or gas sold.
     "Energy consumer"
means a business or residential consumer of electric generation service or gas
supply service located within the territorial jurisdiction of a government
aggregator.
     "Energy efficiency
portfolio standard" means a requirement to procure a specified amount of
energy efficiency or demand side management resources as a means of managing
and reducing energy usage and demand by customers.
     "Energy year" or
"EY" means the 12-month period from June 1st through May 31st,
numbered according to the calendar year in which it ends.
     "Existing business
relationship" means a relationship formed by a voluntary two-way
communication between an electric power supplier, gas supplier, broker, energy
agent, marketer, private aggregator, sales representative, or telemarketer and
a customer, regardless of an exchange of consideration, on the basis of an
inquiry, application, purchase, or transaction initiated by the customer
regarding products or services offered by the electric power supplier, gas
supplier, broker, energy agent, marketer, private aggregator, sales
representative, or telemarketer; however, a consumer's use of electric
generation service or gas supply service through the consumer's electric public
utility or gas public utility shall not constitute or establish an existing
business relationship for the purpose of P.L.2013, c.263.
     "Farmland" means
land actively devoted to agricultural or horticultural use that is valued,
assessed, and taxed pursuant to the "Farmland Assessment Act of
1964," P.L.1964, c.48 (C.54:4-23.1 et seq.).
     "Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission" or "FERC" means the federal agency
established pursuant to 42 U.S.C. s.7171 et seq. to regulate the interstate
transmission of electricity, natural gas, and oil.
     "Final remediation
document" shall have the same meaning as provided in section 3 of
P.L.1976, c.141 (C.58:10-23.11b).
     "Financing entity"
means an electric public utility, a special purpose entity, or any other
assignee of bondable transition property, which issues transition bonds. 
Except as specifically provided in P.L.1999, c.23 (C.48:3-49 et al.), a
financing entity which is not itself an electric public utility shall not be
subject to the public utility requirements of Title 48 of the Revised Statutes
or any rules or regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
     "Gas public utility"
means a public utility, as that term is defined in R.S.48:2-13, that
distributes gas to end users within this State.
     "Gas related
service" means a service that is directly related to the consumption of
gas by an end user, including, but not limited to, the installation of demand
side management measures at the end user's premises, the maintenance, repair or
replacement of appliances or other energy-consuming devices at the end user's
premises, and the provision of energy consumption measurement and billing
services.
     "Gas supplier" means
a person that is duly licensed pursuant to the provisions of P.L.1999, c.23
(C.48:3-49 et al.) to offer and assume the contractual and legal obligation to
provide gas supply service to retail customers, and includes, but is not
limited to, marketers and brokers.  A non-public utility affiliate of a public
utility holding company may be a gas supplier, but a gas public utility or any
subsidiary of a gas utility is not a gas supplier.  In the event that a gas
public utility is not part of a holding company legal structure, a related
competitive business segment of that gas public utility may be a gas supplier,
provided that related competitive business segment is structurally separated
from the gas public utility, and provided that the interactions between the gas
public utility and the related competitive business segment are subject to the
affiliate relations standards adopted by the board pursuant to subsection k. of
section 10 of P.L.1999, c.23 (C.48:3-58).
     "Gas supply service"
means the provision to customers of the retail commodity of gas, but does not
include any regulated distribution service.
     "Government
aggregator" means any government entity subject to the requirements of the
"Local Public Contracts Law," P.L.1971, c.198 (C.40A:11-1 et seq.),
the "Public School Contracts Law," N.J.S.18A:18A-1 et seq., or the
"County College Contracts Law," P.L.1982, c.189 (C.18A:64A-25.1 et
seq.), that enters into a written contract with a licensed electric power
supplier or a licensed gas supplier for: (1) the provision of electric
generation service, electric related service, gas supply service, or gas
related service for its own use or the use of other government aggregators; or
(2) if a municipal or county government, the provision of electric generation
service or gas supply service on behalf of business or residential customers
within its territorial jurisdiction.
     "Government energy
aggregation program" means a program and procedure pursuant to which a
government aggregator enters into a written contract for the provision of
electric generation service or gas supply service on behalf of business or
residential customers within its territorial jurisdiction.
     "Governmental
entity" means any federal, state, municipal, local, or other governmental
department, commission, board, agency, court, authority, or instrumentality
having competent jurisdiction.
     "Greenhouse gas emissions
portfolio standard" means a requirement that addresses or limits the
amount of carbon dioxide emissions indirectly resulting from the use of
electricity as applied to any electric power suppliers and basic generation
service providers of electricity.
     "Historic fill"
means generally large volumes of non-indigenous material, no matter what date
they were emplaced on the site, used to raise the topographic elevation of a
site, which were contaminated prior to emplacement and are in no way connected
with the operations at the location of emplacement and which include, but are
not limited to, construction debris, dredge spoils, incinerator residue,
demolition debris, fly ash, and non-hazardous solid waste.  "Historic
fill" shall not include any material which is substantially chromate
chemical production waste or any other chemical production waste or waste from
processing of metal or mineral ores, residues, slags, or tailings.
     "Incremental
auction" means an auction conducted by PJM, as part of PJM's reliability
pricing model, prior to the start of the delivery year to secure electric
capacity as necessary to satisfy the capacity requirements for that delivery
year, that is not otherwise provided for in the base residual auction.
     "Leakage" means an
increase in greenhouse gas emissions related to generation sources located
outside of the State that are not subject to a state, interstate, or regional
greenhouse gas emissions cap or standard that applies to generation sources
located within the State.
     "Locational
deliverability area" or "LDA" means one or more of the zones
within the PJM region which are used to evaluate area transmission constraints
and reliability issues including electric public utility company zones,
sub-zones, and combinations of zones.
     "Locational Marginal Price"
or "LMP" means the price of electricity purchased in the PJM region reflecting
the value of the electricity at the specific location and time of delivery and
yielding different prices during the normal and heavy use of the transmission
system.
     "Long-term capacity
agreement pilot program" or "LCAPP" means a pilot program
established by the board that includes participation by eligible generators, to
seek offers for financially-settled standard offer capacity agreements with
eligible generators pursuant to the provisions of P.L.2011, c.9 (C.48:3-98.2 et
al.).
     "Market transition charge"
means a charge imposed pursuant to section 13 of P.L.1999, c.23 (C.48:3-61) by
an electric public utility, at a level determined by the board, on the electric
public utility customers for a limited duration transition period to recover
stranded costs created as a result of the introduction of electric power supply
competition pursuant to the provisions of P.L.1999, c.23 (C.48:3-49 et al.).
     "Marketer" means a
duly licensed electric power supplier that takes title to electric energy and
capacity, transmission and other services from electric power generators and
other wholesale suppliers and then assumes the contractual and legal obligation
to provide electric generation service, and may include transmission and other
services, to an end-use retail customer or customers, or a duly licensed gas
supplier that takes title to gas and then assumes the contractual and legal
obligation to provide gas supply service to an end-use customer or customers.
     "Microgrid" a small scale
electric grid connected to the regional electric grid managed by PJM that can
generate and manage electricity output in a self-contained, localized area and
that can disconnect from the regional electric grid managed by PJM to operate autonomously.
     "Mid-merit electric power
generation facility" means a generation facility that operates at a
capacity factor between baseload generation facilities and peaker generation
facilities.
     "Net metering
aggregation" means a procedure for calculating the combination of the
annual energy usage for all facilities owned by a single customer where such
customer is a State entity, school district, county, county agency, county
authority, municipality, municipal agency, or municipal authority, and which
are served by a solar electric power generating facility as provided pursuant
to paragraph (4) of subsection e. of section 38 of P.L.1999, c.23 (C.48:3-87).
     "Net proceeds" means
proceeds less transaction and other related costs as determined by the board.
     "Net revenues" means
revenues less related expenses, including applicable taxes, as determined by
the board.
     "Offshore wind
energy" means electric energy produced by a qualified offshore wind
project.
     "Offshore wind renewable
energy certificate" or "OREC" means a certificate, issued by the
board or its designee, representing the environmental attributes of one
megawatt hour of electric generation from a qualified offshore wind project.
     "Off-site end use thermal
energy services customer" means an end use customer that purchases thermal
energy services from an on-site generation facility, combined heat and power
facility, or co-generation facility, and that is located on property that is
separated from the property on which the on-site generation facility, combined
heat and power facility, or co-generation facility is located by more than one
easement, public thoroughfare, or transportation or utility-owned right-of-way.
     "On-site generation
facility" means a generation facility, including, but not limited to, a generation
facility that produces Class I or Class II renewable energy, and equipment and
services appurtenant to electric [sales] output
by such facility [to] for sale
or use by the end use customer located on the property or on property
contiguous to the property on which the end user is located.  An on-site
generation facility shall not be considered a public utility.  The property of
the end use customer and the property on which the on-site generation facility
is located shall be considered contiguous if they are geographically located
next to each other, but may be otherwise separated by an easement, public
thoroughfare, transportation or utility-owned right-of-way, or if the end use
customer is purchasing thermal energy services produced by the on-site
generation facility, for use for heating or cooling, or both, regardless of
whether the customer is located on property that is separated from the property
on which the on-site generation facility is located by more than one easement,
public thoroughfare, or transportation or utility-owned right-of-way.
     "Person" means an
individual, partnership, corporation, association, trust, limited liability
company, governmental entity, or other legal entity.
     "PJM Interconnection,
L.L.C." or "PJM" means the privately-held, limited liability
corporation that is a FERC-approved Regional Transmission Organization, or its
successor, that manages the regional, high-voltage electricity grid serving all
or parts of 13 states including New Jersey and the District of Columbia,
operates the regional competitive wholesale electric market, manages the
regional transmission planning process, and establishes systems and rules to
ensure that the regional and in-State energy markets operate fairly and
efficiently.
     "Preliminary assessment"
shall have the same meaning as provided in section 3 of P.L.1976, c.141
(C.58:10-23.11b).
     "Private aggregator"
means a non-government aggregator that is a duly-organized business or
non-profit organization authorized to do business in this State that enters
into a contract with a duly licensed electric power supplier for the purchase
of electric energy and capacity, or with a duly licensed gas supplier for the
purchase of gas supply service, on behalf of multiple end-use customers by
combining the loads of those customers.
     "Properly closed sanitary
landfill facility" means a sanitary landfill facility, or a portion of a
sanitary landfill facility, for which performance is complete with respect to
all activities associated with the design, installation, purchase, or
construction of all measures, structures, or equipment required by the
Department of Environmental Protection, pursuant to law, in order to prevent,
minimize, or monitor pollution or health hazards resulting from a sanitary
landfill facility subsequent to the termination of operations at any portion
thereof, including, but not necessarily limited to, the placement of earthen or
vegetative cover, and the installation of methane gas vents or monitors and
leachate monitoring wells or collection systems at the site of any sanitary
landfill facility.
     "Public utility holding
company" means: (1) any company that, directly or indirectly, owns,
controls, or holds with power to vote, 10 percent or more of the outstanding
voting securities of an electric public utility or a gas public utility or of a
company which is a public utility holding company by virtue of this definition,
unless the Securities and Exchange Commission, or its successor, by order
declares such company not to be a public utility holding company under the
Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, 15 U.S.C. s.79 et seq., or its
successor; or (2) any person that the Securities and Exchange Commission, or
its successor, determines, after notice and opportunity for hearing, directly or
indirectly, to exercise, either alone or pursuant to an arrangement or
understanding with one or more other persons, such a controlling influence over
the management or policies of an electric public utility or a gas public
utility or public utility holding company as to make it necessary or
appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors or
consumers that such person be subject to the obligations, duties, and
liabilities imposed in the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, 15 U.S.C.
s.79 et seq., or its successor act.
     "Qualified offshore wind
project" means a wind turbine electricity generation facility in the
Atlantic Ocean and connected to the electric transmission system in this State,
and includes the associated transmission-related interconnection facilities and
equipment, and approved by the board pursuant to section 3 of P.L.2010, c.57
(C.48:3-87.1).
     "Registration
program" means an administrative process developed by the board pursuant
to subsection u. of section 38 of P.L.1999, c.23 (C.48:3-87) that requires all
owners of solar electric power generation facilities connected to the
distribution system that intend to generate SRECs, to file with the board
documents detailing the size, location, interconnection plan, land use, and
other project information as required by the board.
     "Regulatory asset"
means an asset recorded on the books of an electric public utility or gas
public utility pursuant to the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, No.
71, entitled "Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of
Regulation," or any successor standard and as deemed recoverable by the
board.
     "Related competitive
business segment of an electric public utility or gas public utility"
means any business venture of an electric public utility or gas public utility
including, but not limited to, functionally separate business units, joint
ventures, and partnerships, that offers to provide or provides competitive
services.
     "Related competitive
business segment of a public utility holding company" means any business
venture of a public utility holding company, including, but not limited to,
functionally separate business units, joint ventures, and partnerships and
subsidiaries, that offers to provide or provides competitive services, but does
not include any related competitive business segments of an electric public
utility or gas public utility.
     "Reliability pricing
model" or "RPM" means PJM's capacity-market model, and its
successors, that secures capacity on behalf of electric load serving entities
to satisfy load obligations not satisfied through the output of electric
generation facilities owned by those entities, or otherwise secured by those
entities through bilateral contracts.
     "Renewable energy
certificate" or "REC" means a certificate representing the
environmental benefits or attributes of one megawatt-hour of generation from a
generating facility that produces Class I or Class II renewable energy, but
shall not include a solar renewable energy certificate or an offshore wind
renewable energy certificate.
     "Resource clearing
price" or "RCP" means the clearing price established for the
applicable locational deliverability area by the base residual auction or
incremental auction, as determined by the optimization algorithm for each
auction, conducted by PJM as part of PJM's reliability pricing model.
     "Resource recovery
facility" means a solid waste facility constructed and operated for the
incineration of solid waste for energy production and the recovery of metals
and other materials for reuse, which the Department of Environmental Protection
has determined to be in compliance with current environmental standards,
including, but not limited to, all applicable requirements of the federal
"Clean Air Act" (42 U.S.C. s.7401 et seq.).
     "Restructuring related
costs" means reasonably incurred costs directly related to the
restructuring of the electric power industry, including the closure, sale,
functional separation, and divestiture of generation and other competitive
utility assets by a public utility, or the provision of competitive services as
those costs are determined by the board, and which are not stranded costs as
defined in P.L.1999, c.23 (C.48:3-49 et al.) but may include, but not be
limited to, investments in management information systems, and which shall
include expenses related to employees affected by restructuring which result in
efficiencies and which result in benefits to ratepayers, such as training or
retraining at the level equivalent to one year's training at a vocational or
technical school or county community college, the provision of severance pay of
two weeks of base pay for each year of full-time employment, and a maximum of
24 months' continued health care coverage.  Except as to expenses related to
employees affected by restructuring, "restructuring related costs"
shall not include going forward costs.
     "Retail choice"
means the ability of retail customers to shop for electric generation or gas
supply service from electric power or gas suppliers, or opt to receive basic
generation service or basic gas service, and the ability of an electric power
or gas supplier to offer electric generation service or gas supply service to
retail customers, consistent with the provisions of P.L.1999, c.23 (C.48:3-49
et al.).
     "Retail margin"
means an amount, reflecting differences in prices that electric power suppliers
and electric public utilities may charge in providing electric generation
service and basic generation service, respectively, to retail customers,
excluding residential customers, which the board may authorize to be charged to
categories of basic generation service customers of electric public utilities
in this State, other than residential customers, under the board's continuing
regulation of basic generation service pursuant to sections 3 and 9 of
P.L.1999, c.23 (C.48:3-51 and 48:3-57), for the purpose of promoting a
competitive retail market for the supply of electricity.
     "Sales
representative" means a person employed by, acting on behalf of, or as an
independent contractor for, an electric power supplier, gas supplier, broker,
energy agent, marketer, or private aggregator who, by any means, solicits a
potential residential customer for the provision of electric generation service
or gas supply service.
     "Sanitary landfill
facility" shall have the same meaning as provided in section 3 of
P.L.1970, c.39 (C.13:1E-3).
     "School district"
means a local or regional school district established pursuant to chapter 8 or
chapter 13 of Title 18A of the New Jersey Statutes, a county special services
school district established pursuant to article 8 of chapter 46 of Title 18A of
the New Jersey Statutes, a county vocational school district established
pursuant to article 3 of chapter 54 of Title 18A of the New Jersey Statutes, and
a district under full State intervention pursuant to P.L.1987, c.399
(C.18A:7A-34 et al.).
     "Shopping credit"
means an amount deducted from the bill of an electric public utility customer
to reflect the fact that the customer has switched to an electric power
supplier and no longer takes basic generation service from the electric public
utility.
     "Site investigation"
shall have the same meaning as provided in section 3 of P.L.1976, c.141
(C.58:10-23.11b).
     "Small scale hydropower
facility" means a facility located within this State that is connected to
the distribution system, and that meets the requirements of, and has been
certified by, a nationally recognized low-impact hydropower organization that
has established low-impact hydropower certification criteria applicable to: (1)
river flows; (2) water quality; (3) fish passage and protection; (4) watershed
protection; (5) threatened and endangered species protection; (6) cultural
resource protection; (7) recreation; and (8) facilities recommended for removal.
     "Social program"
means a program implemented with board approval to provide assistance to a
group of disadvantaged customers, to provide protection to consumers, or to
accomplish a particular societal goal, and includes, but is not limited to, the
winter moratorium program, utility practices concerning "bad debt"
customers, low income assistance, deferred payment plans, weatherization
programs, and late payment and deposit policies, but does not include any
demand side management program or any environmental requirements or controls.
     "Societal benefits
charge" means a charge imposed by an electric public utility, at a level
determined by the board, pursuant to, and in accordance with, section 12 of
P.L.1999, c.23 (C.48:3-60).
     "Solar alternative compliance
payment" or "SACP" means a payment of a certain dollar amount
per megawatt hour (MWh) which an electric power supplier or provider may submit
to the board in order to comply with the solar electric generation requirements
under section 38 of P.L.1999, c.23 (C.48:3-87).
     "Solar renewable energy
certificate" or "SREC" means a certificate issued by the board
or its designee, representing one megawatt hour (MWh) of solar energy that is
generated by a facility connected to the distribution system in this State and
has value based upon, and driven by, the energy market.
     "Standard offer capacity
agreement" or "SOCA" means a financially-settled transaction
agreement, approved by board order, that provides for eligible generators to
receive payments from the electric public utilities for a defined amount of
electric capacity for a term to be determined by the board but not to exceed 15
years, and for such payments to be a fully non-bypassable charge, with such an
order, once issued, being irrevocable.
     "Standard offer capacity
price" or "SOCP" means the capacity price that is fixed for the
term of the SOCA and which is the price to be received by eligible generators
under a board-approved SOCA.
     "State entity" means
a department, agency, or office of State government, a State university or
college, or an authority created by the State.
     "Stranded cost"
means the amount by which the net cost of an electric public utility's electric
generating assets or electric power purchase commitments, as determined by the
board consistent with the provisions of P.L.1999, c.23 (C.48:3-49 et al.),
exceeds the market value of those assets or contractual commitments in a
competitive supply marketplace and the costs of buydowns or buyouts of power
purchase contracts.
     "Stranded costs recovery
order" means each order issued by the board in accordance with subsection
c. of section 13 of P.L.1999, c.23 (C.48:3-61) which sets forth the amount of
stranded costs, if any, the board has determined an electric public utility is
eligible to recover and collect in accordance with the standards set forth in
section 13 of P.L.1999, c.23 (C.48:3-61) and the recovery mechanisms therefor.
     "Telemarketer" shall
have the same meaning as set forth in section 2 of P.L.2003, c.76 (C.56:8-120).
     "Telemarketing sales
call" means a telephone call made by a telemarketer to a potential
residential customer as part of a plan, program, or campaign to encourage the
customer to change the customer's electric power supplier or gas supplier.  A
telephone call made to an existing customer of an electric power supplier, gas
supplier, broker, energy agent, marketer, private aggregator, or sales
representative, for the sole purpose of collecting on accounts or following up
on contractual obligations, shall not be deemed a telemarketing sales call.  A
telephone call made in response to an express written request of a customer
shall not be deemed a telemarketing sales call.
     "Thermal efficiency"
means the useful electric energy output of a facility, plus the useful thermal
energy output of the facility, expressed as a percentage of the total energy
input to the facility.
     "Transition bond
charge" means a charge, expressed as an amount per kilowatt hour, that is
authorized by and imposed on electric public utility ratepayers pursuant to a
bondable stranded costs rate order, as modified at any time pursuant to the
provisions of P.L.1999, c.23 (C.48:3-49 et al.).
     "Transition bonds"
means bonds, notes, certificates of participation, beneficial interest, or
other evidences of indebtedness or ownership issued pursuant to an indenture,
contract, or other agreement of an electric public utility or a financing
entity, the proceeds of which are used, directly or indirectly, to recover,
finance or refinance bondable stranded costs and which are, directly or
indirectly, secured by or payable from bondable transition property. 
References in P.L.1999, c.23 (C.48:3-49 et al.) to principal, interest, and
acquisition or redemption premium with respect to transition bonds which are
issued in the form of certificates of participation or beneficial interest or
other evidences of ownership shall refer to the comparable payments on such
securities.
     "Transition period"
means the period from August 1, 1999 through July 31, 2003.
     "Transmission and distribution
system" means, with respect to an electric public utility, any facility or
equipment that is used for the transmission, distribution, or delivery of
electricity to the customers of the electric public utility including, but not
limited to, the land, structures, meters, lines, switches, and all other
appurtenances thereof and thereto, owned or controlled by the electric public
utility within this State.
     "Universal service"
means any service approved by the board with the purpose of assisting low-income
residential customers in obtaining or retaining electric generation or delivery
service.
     "Unsolicited
advertisement" means any advertising claims of the commercial availability
or quality of services provided by an electric power supplier, gas supplier,
broker, energy agent, marketer, private aggregator, sales representative, or
telemarketer which is transmitted to a potential customer without that
customer's prior express invitation or permission.
(cf: P.L.2015, c.51, s.1)

     2.  Section 9 of P.L.1999,
c.23 (C.48:3-57) is amended to read as follows):  
     9.    a. (1) Simultaneously
with the starting date for the implementation of retail choice as determined by
the board pursuant to subsection a. of section 5 of P.L.1999, c.23 (C.48:3-53),
until the board specifically finds it to be no longer necessary and in the
public interest, each electric public utility shall provide basic generation
service.  Power procured for basic generation service by an electric public
utility shall be purchased, at prices consistent with market conditions.  The
charges assessed to customers for basic generation service shall be regulated
by the board and shall be based on the reasonable and prudent cost to the
utility of providing such service, including the cost of power purchased at
prices consistent with market conditions by the electric public utility in the
competitive wholesale marketplace and related ancillary and administrative
costs, as determined by the board.  The charges assessed to customers for basic
generation service pursuant to this subsection may include a retail margin, as
determined by the board. The board shall approve unbundled rates to assure that
aggregate rate reductions established pursuant to section 4 of P.L.1999, c.23
(C.48:3-52) are sustained notwithstanding changes in basic generation charges
approved pursuant to this section.
     (2)   Each electric public
utility shall remit to the State Treasurer all monies collected by the utility
as a retail margin authorized pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection.  A
Retail Margin Fund shall be established as a non-lapsing, revolving fund in the
General Fund for the deposit of all retail margin monies received from the
electric public utilities and remitted to the State Treasurer.
     (3)   (a) The board may
use monies paid in connection with the retail margin, from any portion of the
amount appropriated pursuant to section 3 of P.L.2009, c.34 that has not been
allocated pursuant to subsection d. of section 3 of P.L.2009, c.34, and any
other monies in the Retail Margin Fund in excess of the amount appropriated,
for the purpose of funding grants by the board only to CIEP class customers to
implement alternative programs and measures that are consistent with, and will
further the goals of the energy master plan adopted pursuant to section 12 of
P.L.1977, c.146 (C.52:27F-14), to maximize energy conservation and energy
efficiency, reduce peak energy demand, and increase renewable energy sources. 
The grants may also fund supportive measures, such as energy audits, education
and outreach programs, and technical assistance, that are deemed necessary to
the proper implementation of the alternative programs and measures.  The board
shall establish the types of measures to receive such financial assistance, the
eligibility criteria for such financial assistance, the procedures and criteria
for awarding such financial assistance, and the conditions of such financial
assistance, by order or orders issued after notice and an opportunity for
public comment, notwithstanding any provisions of the "Administrative
Procedure Act," P.L.1968, c.410 (C.52:14B-1 et seq.) to the contrary.  The
board may change programs and program designs as technologies, markets and
customer needs change.
     (b) (i) The board, in
consultation with the BPU Business Ombudsman created under section 4 of
P.L.2005, c.215 (C.48:2-95), shall issue a solicitation to advertise the
availability of grants for projects to install or expand combined heat and
power facilities at facilities owned or operated by CIEP class customers in
this State.
     (ii)  The solicitation
shall indicate that grants are to be awarded on a first-come, first-served
basis for projects that satisfy all of the following eligibility criteria: 

     (aa)  the project shall
serve a CIEP class customer in this State with an electric demand of at least
750 kilowatts or a level of demand that subjects the customer to payment of a retail
margin pursuant to paragraph (1) of this section; 
     (bb)  the project shall
establish by contract or other arrangement that the electric output generated
at a combined heat and power facility shall, to the maximum extent feasible, be
consumed at the project site by a facility located at the site and that any surplus
power that is produced may be sold into the regional electric grid managed by
PJM; and 
     (cc) the facility shall
have an electric generating capacity of greater than one megawatt and the
facility shall be designed to achieve thermal efficiency levels of at least 65
percent for low-heat-value facilities with up to 20 megawatts of electric
generating capacity, and at least 70 percent for facilities with electric
generating capacity greater than 20 megawatts.  A facility that does not
currently achieve the applicable thermal efficiency level shall be eligible to
receive grants pursuant to this subsection if new or expanded projects
developed at the facility will achieve thermal efficiency levels of at least 65
percent for facilities with up to 20 megawatts of electric generating capacity,
and at least 70 percent for facilities with electric generating capacity
greater than 20 megawatts.
     (iii)  The solicitation
shall further provide that the amount of each grant shall be a function of the
kilowatt-hours of electricity and the number of Btu per hour of thermal energy
that the combined heat and power facility generates over a period of four years
beginning with the facility's commencement of operation.  The amount of the
grant per kilowatt-hour and per Btu per hour shall be calculated so that a
facility receives a grant in the amount of $6 for each percent of its electric
capacity factor.
     (4)   Nothing in this section
shall be construed to authorize the board to use the retail margin for any use
that does not provide a direct benefit to CIEP class customers, except as the
board may determine is necessary pursuant to section 13 of P.L.2007, c.340
(C.48:3-98.1) and section 4 of P.L.2005, c.215 (C.48:2-95).
     (5)   The board shall, not
later than December 1 of each year, transmit to the Joint Budget Oversight
Committee, or its successor, a report detailing the amount of monies deposited
in and allocated from the Retail Margin Fund during the preceding State fiscal year. 
The report shall include, but not be limited to, the number and description of
each combined heat and power facility project funded from the Retail Margin
Fund and the amount allocated to each project, and the number and description
of any grants allocated for the alternative programs and measures provided for
in paragraph (3) of this subsection.  In addition to the report, the board
shall also provide to the joint committee a copy of all board orders concerning
the establishment or use of, or change in the amount of, the retail margin.
     b.    The board may allow an
electric public utility to purchase power for basic generation service through
a bilateral contract from a related competitive business segment of its public
utility holding company only if:
     (1)   The related competitive
business segment is not a related competitive business segment of the electric
public utility; and
     (2)   The board determines
that the procurement of power from the related competitive business segment of
the public utility holding company is necessary in order to ensure the
reliability of service to basic generation service customers or to address
other extraordinary circumstances, and that the purchase price does not exceed
the market price for such power or the power was procured through a competitive
bid process subject to board review and approval.  The board shall require that
all net revenues derived from such sales, when the source of power is assets or
contracts which costs are included in stranded costs recovery charges assessed
pursuant to sections 13 and 14 of P.L.1999, c.23 (C.48:3-61 and C.48:3-62),
shall be applied:
     (a)   To offset any market
transition charge or equivalent rate mechanism assessed to customers pursuant
to section 13 of P.L.1999, c.23 (C.48:3-61); or
     (b)   If the electric public
utility is not assessing a market transition charge, to offset the rates
charged to customers for distribution service, except that such offset shall
cease to be required after the term of the transition bond charge has expired as
provided in paragraph (1) of subsection d. of section 14 of P.L.1999, c.23
(C.48:3-62).
     (3)   The board may devise an
alternative accounting or cost recovery process that permits an electric public
utility to purchase power from a related competitive business segment of its
public utility holding company, or otherwise, to provide basic generation
service to its customers during the period that the electric public utility is
providing for sustainable rate reductions pursuant to subsection j. of section
4 of P.L.1999, c.23 (C.48:3-52) and subsection a. of this section, if the board
determines that such process is necessary to mitigate the impacts of market
price fluctuations and to sustain such rate reductions.
     c.     After the starting date
of retail competition as provided in subsection a. of section 5 of P.L.1999,
c.23 (C.48:3-53), the board shall issue a decision as to whether to make
available on a competitive basis the opportunity to provide basic generation
service to any electric power supplier, any electric public utility, or both.
     d.    Power procured for basic
generation service by an electric power supplier shall be purchased at prices
consistent with market conditions.  The charges assessed to customers for basic
generation service shall be regulated by the board and shall be based on the
reasonable and prudent cost to the supplier of providing such service,
including the cost of power purchased at prices consistent with market
conditions, by the supplier in the competitive wholesale marketplace and related
ancillary and administrative costs, as determined by the board or shall be
based upon the result of a competitive bid.
     e.     Each electric public
utility or electric power supplier that provides basic generation service
pursuant to subsection a., c. or d. of this section shall be permitted to
recover in its basic generation charges on a full and timely basis all
reasonable and prudently incurred costs incurred in the provision of basic
generation services consistent with the provisions of this section, except to
the extent that certain costs related to the provision of basic generation
service are already being recovered in other elements of an electric public
utility's charges.  The board may approve ratemaking and other pricing
mechanisms that provide incentives, including financial risks and rewards, for
the utility or electric power supplier to procure a portfolio of electric power
supply that provides maximum benefit to basic generation service customers.
     f.     Each electric public
utility shall submit a quarterly report to the board of generation contracts
between the public utility and any related competitive business segment.  A
utility that submits a report pursuant to this subsection may petition the
board for confidential treatment as trade secrets of any or all of the
information provided.
     g.    Nothing in this section
shall apply to any existing board approved bilateral power purchase contract by
an electric public utility as of the effective date of P.L.1999, c.23
(C.48:3-49 et al.).
(cf: P.L.2009, c.34, s.2)
 
     3.    (New section) a. Notwithstanding
any provision of the "Administrative Procedure Act," P.L.1968, c.410
(C.52:14B-1 et seq.) to the contrary, the board shall initiate a proceeding,
and, after notice, opportunity for public comment, and a public hearing, shall
adopt standards which require electric public utilities to offer non-discriminatory
rates to a district energy collaborative.  For each kilowatt-hour of
electricity sold by the DEC for which the electric public utility receives
assigned PJM payments, the electric public utility shall pay the DEC an amount
equal to the then prevailing per kilowatt-hour BGS rate for fixed price
customers, or if there is no such rate, a reasonably comparable amount
determined by the board; provided that, if the aggregate generation of all
microgrids operated by a DEC exceeds the aggregate amount of electricity
supplied by the electric power supplier or BGS provider to the facilities of
the municipality or county over an annualized period, the price for the excess
generation shall be the average over the annualized period of the PJM electric
power pool's real-time locational marginal price rate, adjusted for losses, for
the respective zone in the PJM electric power pool, which may require an
adjustment to the amounts previously paid by the electric public utility to the
DEC.  The payments shall be made by the electric public utility to the DEC on a
monthly basis and may be made through a tariff or contract as determined by the
electric public utility.  Any difference between the amounts paid by the
electric public utility to the DEC and the PJM payments received by the
electric public utility associated with the microgrid, along with the electric
public utility's incremental costs of implementing and administering the
payments, shall flow through a reconciliation clause of the electric public
utility's tariff.
     b.  DECs that are connected to
the distribution system may earn eligible energy credits, SRECs, or other
applicable incentives when Class I and Class II renewable energy is in use.   
     c. All DECs shall be licensed
by the board.  The board's licensing requirements shall ensure sound and
uniform business practices.  The board shall adopt and implement a DEC licensing
procedure within 30 days after the effective date of P.L.    , c.    (C.)
(pending before the Legislature as this bill).  For the purposes of the
licensing procedure, the board shall issue an order in writing either approving
or disapproving a DEC application for licensing within 30 days of the date of
receipt of the application.  If the board fails to either approve or disapprove
the application within the 30-day period, the application shall be deemed
approved.
 
     4.  This act shall take effect
immediately.
 
 
STATEMENT
 
     This bill directs the Board of
Public Utilities (board) to provide incentives for district energy
collaboratives (DEC) and certain combined heat and power facilities.
     Under the bill, the board is
to adopt standards which require electric public utilities (utilities) to offer
non-discriminatory rates to a DEC.  For each kilowatt-hour of electricity sold
by the DEC for which the utility receives assigned PJM payments, the utility is
to pay the DEC an amount equal to the then prevailing per kilowatt-hour basic
generation service rate for fixed price customers, or if there is no such rate,
a reasonably comparable amount determined by the board.  The payments are to be
made by the utility to the DEC on a monthly basis and may be made through a
tariff or contract as determined by the utility.
     The bill provides that DECs that
are connected to the distribution system may earn eligible energy credits or other
applicable incentives.  All DECs are to be licensed by the board, which is to adopt
and implement a DEC licensing procedure within 30 days after the bill's
effective date.
     Under the bill, the board is
to issue a solicitation to advertise the availability of grants for projects to
install or expand combined heat and power facilities owned or operated by commercial
and industrial energy pricing class customers in this State.  The solicitation
is to indicate that grants are to be awarded on a first-come, first-served
basis for projects that satisfy the criteria set for in the bill.  The
solicitation is to further provide that the amount of each grant is be a
function of the kilowatt-hours of electricity and the number of British thermal
units (Btu) per hour of thermal energy that the combined heat and power
facility generates over a period of four years beginning with the facility's
commencement of operation.  The amount of the grant per kilowatt-hour and per
Btu per hour is to be calculated so that a facility receives a grant in the
amount of $6 for each percent of its electric capacity factor.

