HLS 18RS-180 REENG ROSSED
2018 Reg ular Session
HOUSE B ILL NO. 14
BY REPRESENTATI VE SMI TH
RETI REMENT/TEACHERS:  Provides relative to the reemploy ment of retired interpreters,
educational transliterators, and certified educators of the hearing  impaired in
positions covered by  the Teachers'  Retirement Sy stem of L ouisiana
1 AN ACT
2 To amend and reenact R.S. 11:710(A)(3), (4), and (6)(a) and (F)(3) and to enact R.S.
3 11:710(A)(5)(e), relative to the reemploy ment of retirees of the Teachers'  Retirement
4 System of Louisiana in positions covered by the system; to authoriz e the
5 reemploy ment of pre-kinderg arten teachers, interpreters, educational transliterators,
6 and certified educators of the deaf or hard of hearing  in critical shortag e positions;to
7 authoriz e the reemploy ment of persons in clerical office positions, subject to an
8 earning s limitation; to authoriz e all members to return to work without an earning s
9 limitation five y ears after retirement; and to provide for related matters.
10 Notice of intention to introduce this Act has been published
11 as provided by Article X, Section 29(C) of the Constitution
12 of Louisiana.
13 Be it enacted by  the L egislature of L ouisiana:
14 Section 1.  R.S. 11:710(A)(3), (4), and (6)(a) and (F)(3) are hereby  amended and
15 reenacted and R.S. 11:710(A)(5)(e) is hereby  enacted to read as follows:
16 §710.  Employ ment of retirees
17 A.  Definitions.
18 As used in this Section, the following  words and phrases shall have the
19 following  meaning s, unless a different meaning  is clearly  required by  the contex t:
20 *          *          *
Page 1 of 4
CODI NG:  Words in struck throug h type are deletions from existing  law; words underscored
are additions.
HLS 18RS-180 REENG ROSSED
HB NO. 14
1 (3)  " Critical shortag e" means any situation where there exists a shortag e of
2 certified teachers in a certain subject area or a shortag e of certified speech therapists,
3 speech patholog ists, audiolog ists, educational diagnosticians, school social workers,
4 school counselors, or school psycholog ists, in a critical shortag e position, as further
5 provided in this Section.
6 (4)  "Reemploy ment-elig ible critical shortag e position"  or "critical shortag e
7 position"  means any  of the following :
8 (a)  A position for a full-time or part-time classroom teacher who teaches any
9 student in kinderg arten pre-kinderg arten throug h twelfth grade in a school where a
10 critical shortag e exists.
11 (b)  A position for a full-time certified speech therapist, speech patholog ist,
12 audiolog ist, educational diagnostician, school social worker, school counselor, or
13 school psycholog ist, interpreter, educational transliterator, or educator of the deaf or
14 hard of hearing  whose position of employ ment requires a valid Louisiana ancillary
15 certificate approved and issued by the state Department of Education in a school
16 district where a critical shortag e exists.
17 (5)  " Reemploy ment-elig ible position"  means any  of the following :
18 *          *          *
19 (e)  A position for clerical office personnel in an elementary  or secondary
20 school.
21 (6)  " Reemploy ment-elig ible retiree"  means any  of the following :
22 (a)  A member who was retired on or before June 30, 2010  A member who
23 has been retired for at least five y ears.
24 *          *          *
25 F.
26 *          *          *
27 (3)  On an annual basis, the employ ing school board for a retiree who returns
28 to active service in a position defined in Subparag raph (A)(4)(b) of this Section shall
29 certify  to the Board of Elementary  and Secondary  Education and the board of
Page 2 of 4
CODI NG:  Words in struck throug h type are deletions from existing  law; words underscored
are additions.
HLS 18RS-180 REENG ROSSED
HB NO. 14
1 trustees of this system that a critical shortag e of speech therapists, speec h
2 patholog ists, audiolog ists, educational diagnosticians, school social workers, school
3 counse lors, or school psycholog ists exists in the school district in each critical
4 shortag e position filled by  a retiree.
5 Section 2.  The cost of this Act, if any, shall be funded with additional employ er
6 contributions in compliance with Article X, Section 29(F) of the Constitution of Louisiana.
7 Section 3.  This Act shall become effective on July 1, 2018; if vetoed by the governor
8 and subsequently  approved by the legislature, this Act shall becom e effective on July 1,
9 2018, or on the day  following  such approval by  the leg islature, whichever is later.
DIGEST
The digest printed below was prepared by House Legislative Services.  It constitutes no part
of the legislative instrument.  The keyword, one-liner, abstract, and digest do not constitute
part of the law or proof or indicia of leg islative intent.  [ R.S. 1:13(B ) and 24:177(E)]
HB 14 Reeng rossed 2018 Reg ular Session Smith
Abstract:   Authoriz es retirees of the Teachers'  Retirement System of La. (TRSL ) to return
to work without benefit suspension five years after retirement and for members who
have been retired for less than five years, adds pre-kinderg arten teachers and teachers
of the deaf or hard of hearing  to the list of critical shortag e position s that may be
filled without benefit suspension and adds clerical personnel to the list of positions
that may  be filled subject to a 25% earning s limitation.
Present law generally  provides that a retiree of TRSL  may not return to work in a position
covered by the system and continue to receive his benefit check while reemploy ed.  Further
provides ex ceptions to present law.
Present law provides that after a 12-month suspension period, there shall be no further
suspension of benefits for a member who returns to work if the member retired on or before
June 30, 2010 or holds an advanced degree in speech therapy , speech patholog y, or
audiolog y, regardless of retirement date.  Proposed law retains present law relative to speech
therapists, speech patholog ists, and audiolog ists and further provides that there shall be no
suspension of benefits for any member who has been retired for at least five y ears.
Present law provides procedures for establishing  that a critical shortag e exists for purposes
of present law.  Requires advertisement in the official journal of the employ er's governing
authority  and posting  of job vacancies at certain post-secondary  institutions.  Further limits
authority  to rehire a retiree for the critical shortag e position if more than three nonretirees
apply  for the position.  Proposed law retains present law.
Present law authoriz es a retiree to return to work as a substitute classroom teacher, an
adjunct professor, an instructor in an adult literacy  program, or a school nurse and to
continue to receive his benefit check; however, the allowable employ ment earning s of such
retiree are capped at 25% of his benefit amount.  Proposed law retains present law and adds
Page 3 of 4
CODI NG:  Words in struck throug h type are deletions from existing  law; words underscored
are additions.
HLS 18RS-180 REENG ROSSED
HB NO. 14
clerical office personnel to the list of positions that a retiree may return to subject to a 25%
earning s limitation.
Present law provides that in certain circumstances a retiree may return to work in a critical
shortag e position (defined in present law) without reduction of benefits.  Such positions
include returni ng as a certified classroom teacher, as a certified speech therapist, speech
patholog ist, audiolog ist, educational diagnostician, school social worker, school counselor,
or school psycholog ist.  Proposed law adds pre-kinderg arten teacher and interpreter,
educational transliterator, or educator of the deaf or hard of hearing  to the list of certified
professionals who may return to work in a critical shortag e position without reduction of
benefits.
Effective J uly 1, 2018.
(Amends R.S. 11:710(A)(3), (4), and (6)(a) and (F )(3); Adds R.S. 11:710(A)(5)(e))
Summary  of Amendments Adopted by  House
The Committee Amendments Proposed by House Committee on Retirement to the
original bill:
1. Allow all retirees to return to work without earning limitation five years after
retirement.
2. Add pre-kinderg arten teachers to list of critical shortag e positions, eligible for
reemploy ment without earning s limitation.
3. Add clerical office personnel to list of positions eligible for reemploy ment with
25% earning  limitation.
Page 4 of 4
CODI NG:  Words in struck throug h type are deletions from existing  law; words underscored
are additions.
