HLS 18RS-277 ENG ROSSED
2018 Reg ular Session
HOUSE B ILL NO. 510
BY REPRESENTATI VE BARRAS
BUDGETARY PROCEDURES:  Establishes the Louisiana Checkbook website to provide
transparency  of state fiscal information
1 AN ACT
2 To amend and reenact R.S. 39:6(C) and to enact Subpart F of Part II of Chapter 1 of Subtitle
3 I of Title 39 of the Louisiana Revised Statutes of 1950, to be comprised of R.S.
4 39:89.1 throug h 89.3, relative to state expenditure reporting ; to provide for the duties
5 of the comm issioner; to provide for the establishment and maintenance of the
6 Louisiana Checkbook as a government fiscal transparency  website; to provide for the
7 information to be included on the website; to provide for implementation; to provide
8 for an effective date; and to provide for related matters.
9 Be it enacted by  the L egislature of L ouisiana:
10 Section 1.  R.S. 39:6(C) is hereby  amended and reenacted and Subpart F of Part II
11 of Chapter 1 of Subtitle I  of Title 39 of the Louisiana Revised Statutes of 1950, comprised
12 of R.S. 39:89.1 throug h 89.3, is hereby  enacted to read as follows: 
13 §6.  Duties of commissioner
14 *          *          *
15 C.(1)  The commissioner of administrati on, subject to legislative
16 appropriation, shall take all necessary  steps for the full implementation of the LaGov
17 statewide enterprise resource planning  financial system maintained by  the office of
18 technolog y services in the division of administration throughout the executive branch
19 of state g overnment, by  not later than October 1, 2021.
20 (2)  The commissioner of admi nistration shall establish and maintain the
21 Louisiana Checkbook as a website to post reports of state spending  as provided in
Page 1 of 13
CODI NG:  Words in struck throug h type are deletions from existing  law; words underscored
are additions.
HLS 18RS-277 ENG ROSSED
HB NO. 510
1 R.S. 39:89.1 et seq. The reports shall include the nature and amount of
2 appropriations for the executive branch of state government contained in the General
3 Appropriation Act and other acts for each budg et unit, annual salaries and total
4 compensation of statewide elected offici als and cabinet-level positions in the
5 executive branch of state govern ment, and the total number in the table of
6 organization for each budg et unit.  The commissioner shall maintain on the website
7 a monthly report of spending  by each such budg et unit.  The commissioner of
8 administration shall consult with the J oint L egislative Committee on the B udget in
9 the development of specifications of the database used for the website.
10 (2)  The website shall  include the following  information regarding  state
11 contracts:
12 (a)  Contract amount.
13 (b)  A brief description of the purpose of the contract.
14 (c)  The beg inning  and ending  dates of the contract.
15 (d)  The name of the contracting  agency.
16 (e)  The name of the contractor.
17 (f)  The city  and state of the contractor.
18 *          *          *
19 SUB PART F .  LOUISIANA CHECKB OOK F ISCAL  TRANSPARENCY W EBSITE
20 §89.1.  L ouisiana Checkbook; establishment and maintenance
21 A.  The commis sioner of administration shall establish and maintain a
22 centraliz ed, searchable website, to be called the Louisiana Checkbook, that provides
23 information to the public about state expenditures and state contracts to provide
24 fiscal transparency  to the public and allow the public to obtain fiscal information
25 regarding  the state.  The website shall have an easily  identifiable Internet address and
26 a dedicated link that is prominently  display ed on the home pag e of the following :
27 (1)  L ouisiana.g ov.
28 (2)  The division of administration.
29 (3)  The office of the g overnor.
Page 2 of 13
CODI NG:  Words in struck throug h type are deletions from existing  law; words underscored
are additions.
HLS 18RS-277 ENG ROSSED
HB NO. 510
1 (4)  The leg islature.
2 (5)  The leg islative auditor.
3 (6)  The state treasurer.
4 (7)  Each statewide elected official and the Public Service Commission.
5 B.  The division of administration shall provide reports to the Joint
6 Legislative Committee on the Budget and the state treasurer regarding  the Louisiana
7 Checkbook on a quarterly  basis in Fiscal Years 2018-2019 throug h 2021-2022, and
8 upon request thereafter.   The  reports shall include but not be limited to the
9 following :
10 (1)  The disclosure of any agency that has not provided information required
11 to be posted on the website.
12 (2)  Addit ions, removals, or modifications to the content or format of the
13 website.
14 (3)  Information regarding  the usage of the website, including  the number of
15 visitors to the website in the previous quarter and the number of visitors to the
16 website in the previous twelve months.
17 C.  All agencies, boards, commissions, departments, and institutions of higher
18 education of the state are directed to furnish information, reports, aid, services, and
19 assistance as may be requested by the commissioner of administra tion in the
20 performance of the commissioner' s responsibilities as set forth in this Part, all
21 without any  cost or charg e.
22 D.  The contents of the website shall  include features such as visual
23 simplicity , charts and graphs, a mobile and tablet mode, the ability  to download data,
24 and the ability  to share information on social media.
25 §89.2.  Contents of L ouisiana Checkbook
26 A.  The Louisiana Checkbook shall include an expenditure database that is
27 electronically  searchable by the public at no cost and that contains reporting  of
28 expenditures by each budg et unit in the executive budg et, including  institutions of
29 higher education.  Information on the Louisiana Checkbook shall be updated at least
Page 3 of 13
CODI NG:  Words in struck throug h type are deletions from existing  law; words underscored
are additions.
HLS 18RS-277 ENG ROSSED
HB NO. 510
1 mont hly.  The Louisiana Checkbook shall present information in the database in a
2 manner that is intuitive to members of the general public, including  graphical
3 representations.
4 (1)  The database shall, at a minimum, allow users to:
5 (a)  Search and aggregate expenditures by individual and multiple budget
6 units and prog rams.
7 (b)  Search and aggregate payments to individual vendors and governmental
8 entities, including  the total amount of state payments issued to individual vendors
9 and g overnmental entities.
10 (c)  Search and aggregate expenditures and payments from multiple fiscal
11 years.
12 (d)  Search and ag gregate ex penditures by  categ ory.
13 (e)  Download information y ielded by  a search of the database.
14 (2)  The database shall include ex penditures by  category and shall include:
15 (a)  Details of expenses charg ed to credit, debit, or other purchase cards and
16 related fees to the ex tent available from the card issuer.
17 (b)  Mandated interag ency payments, such as fees to the leg islative auditor,
18 annual payments to the office of risk manag ement, and contributions to retirement
19 systems and benefits plans.
20 (c)  Revenue sharing  and aid to other levels of government, including
21 minimum foundation prog ram transfers.
22 (3)  Where avail able, for each expenditure, the database shall include the
23 following  information:
24 (a)  The name of the entity  making  the ex penditure.
25 (b)  The name of the person or entity  receiving  the pay ment.
26 (c)  The date and the amount of the ex penditure.
27 (d)  A standar dized descriptive title of the type and purpose of each
28 expenditure.
Page 4 of 13
CODI NG:  Words in struck throug h type are deletions from existing  law; words underscored
are additions.
HLS 18RS-277 ENG ROSSED
HB NO. 510
1 (e)  The manner of payment, including  check, warrant, credit, debit, or other
2 purchase card.
3 (f)  The funding  source, including  the categ orical code and the state fund or
4 account the ex penditure is accounted from.
5 (g)  Where applicable, a link to additional information on the contract
6 available throug h the contracts database.
7 (4)  The ex penditure database shall not include the following :
8 (a)    The addresses or telephone numbers of pay ees.
9 (b)  Tax payment or refund data that include confidential taxpayer
10 information, such as social security  number or federal tax identification number of
11 any individual or business.
12 (c)  Pay ments of state assistance to individual recipients.
13 (d)  Protected health information as the term is defined under the federal
14 Health I nsurance Portability  and Accountability  Act of 1996.
15 (e)  I nformation subject to attorney -client privileg e.
16 (f)  Secure information that would reveal undercover or intellig ence
17 operations by  law enforcement.
18 (g)  Any information that is confidential under state or federal law, rule, or
19 regulation.
20 B.(1)  The Louisiana Checkbook shall include a contracts database that is
21 electronically  searchable by the public at no cost and that contains the following
22 information for each contract:
23 (a)  Contract amount.
24 (b)  A brief description of the purpose of the contract.
25 (c)  The beg inning  and ending  dates of the contract.
26 (d)  The name of the contracting  agency.
27 (e)  The name of the contractor.
28 (f)  The city  and state of the contractor.
29 (2)  The database shall, at a minimum, allow users to:
Page 5 of 13
CODI NG:  Words in struck throug h type are deletions from existing  law; words underscored
are additions.
HLS 18RS-277 ENG ROSSED
HB NO. 510
1 (a)  Search and ag gregate records by  agency.
2 (b)  Search and ag gregate contracts by  contractor.
3 (c)  Download information y ielded by  a search of the database.
4 (3)  The L ouisiana Checkbook shall provide access to, or integ rate into, the
5 Louisiana Checkbook information from the reports on contracts required by law
6 including :
7 (a)  Information required to be published on the division of administration' s
8 website by  R.S. 39:1567(B )(3).
9 (b)  Copies of the monthly  reports submitted to the Joint Legislative
10 Committee on the B udget under R.S. 39:1567(E).
11 (c)  The annual report on the progress of the Hudson Initiative required to be
12 made available on the I nternet by  R.S. 39:2007(E).
13 (d)  The annual report on the progress of the Veteran Initiative required to be
14 made available on the I nternet by  R.S. 39:2177(E).
15 C.(1)  The Louisiana Checkbook shall include an employ ment and salaries
16 database that is electronically  searchable by the public at no cost and that contains
17 information on all state employ ees, including  the following :
18 (a)  The name of the ag ency.
19 (b)   The name of the employ ee.
20 (c)  The job title.
21 (d)  The salary  of the employ ee.
22 (e)  The total compensation paid to the employ ee the prior fisca l year,
23 including  overtime, stipends, and allowances, but excluding  employ ee benefit
24 payments and nontax able employ ee reimbursements.
25 (2)  The database shall, at a minimum, allow users to:
26 (a)  Search and ag gregate records by  agency.
27 (b)  Search and ag gregate salaries by  job title.
28 (c)  Download information y ielded by  a search of the database.
Page 6 of 13
CODI NG:  Words in struck throug h type are deletions from existing  law; words underscored
are additions.
HLS 18RS-277 ENG ROSSED
HB NO. 510
1 (3)  The Louisiana Checkbook shall contain information regarding the
2 number of authoriz ed positions and the number of vacant positions for each
3 institution of higher education and each budg et unit contained in the Gene ral
4 Appropriation Act and the Ancillary  Appropriation Act.
5 D.(1)  The Louisiana Checkbook shall include a boards and commissions
6 database that is electronically  searchable by the public at no cost and that contains
7 the membership information, employ ee information , and financial and budget
8 information required by  R.S. 49:1302 and R.S. 24:513.2.
9 (2)  The database shall, at a minimum, allow users to:
10 (a)  Search and ag gregate records by  agency.
11 (b)  Search and aggregate expenditur es and payments from multiple fiscal
12 years.
13 (c)  Search and ag gregate ex penditures by  categ ory.
14 (d)  Search and aggregate expenditures by individual and multiple agencies.
15 (e)  Download information y ielded by  a search of the database.
16 (3)  The Louisiana Checkbook shall include a link or incorporate the annual
17 reports submitted to the legislature  by the legislative auditor on boards, commissions,
18 and like entities under R.S. 24:513.2(E).
19 E.(1)  The Louisiana Checkbook shall include access to the state debt
20 database, to be established and maintained by the state treasurer.  The database shall
21 be electronically  searchable by the public at no cost and shall contain information on
22 state debt, including  the following :
23 (a)  Amounts and categ ories of state debt, such as pensions, post-employ ment
24 benefit oblig ations, and capital construction.
25 (b)  Amounts and categ ories of local debt backed by the full faith and credit
26 of the state.
27 (c)  Annual costs of debt service by  categ ory and budg et unit.
28 (d)  Sources of funding  for state debt oblig ations.
29 (e)  The per capita costs of state debt.
Page 7 of 13
CODI NG:  Words in struck throug h type are deletions from existing  law; words underscored
are additions.
HLS 18RS-277 ENG ROSSED
HB NO. 510
1 (f)  National and other state comparisons of L ouisiana' s debt.
2 (g)  Information used to determine the state' s net state tax  supported debt.
3 (2)  All agencies, boards, commissions, and departments of the state are
4 directed to furnish information, reports, aid, services, and assistance to the extent
5 allowed by state and federal law and regulations as may be requested by the state
6 treasurer in the performance of the treasurer' s responsibilities as set forth in this
7 Subsection, all without any  cost or charg e.
8 F.(1)  The Louisiana Checkbook shall include access to a dedicated  funds
9 database that is electronically  searchable by the public at no cost and that contains
10 the electronic database of reports supported by appropriations from dedicated funds
11 required by  R.S. 49:308.5(B ).
12 (2)  The Louisiana Checkbook shall include access to the report on special
13 funds prepared by  the state treasurer as required by  R.S. 49:308.3(E).
14 G.  The Louisiana Checkbook shall include the Louisiana Performance
15 Accountability  System, the electronic performance database that tracks performance
16 standards, interim quarterly  performance targets, and actual performance informati on
17 for executive branch departments and agencies required  under the Louisiana
18 Government Performance and Accountability  Act, R.S. 39:87.1 et seq.
19 H.  The  Louisiana Checkbook shall include or provide access to the revenue
20 and expenditure data on federal, state, and local fiscal matters maintained by the state
21 Department of Education on its website.
22 I.  The Louisiana Checkbook shall include or provide access to the following
23 information related to revenues on which state ex penditures are based:
24 (1)  The official forecast and the incentive expenditure forecast adopted by
25 the Revenue Estimating  Conference.
26 (2)  The tax exemption budg et prepared by the Louisiana Depa rtment of
27 Revenue under R.S. 47:1517.
28 (3)  The Annual Tax Collection Report prepared by the Departme nt of
29 Revenue.
Page 8 of 13
CODI NG:  Words in struck throug h type are deletions from existing  law; words underscored
are additions.
HLS 18RS-277 ENG ROSSED
HB NO. 510
1 (4)  Monthly  reports provided by the Department of Revenue on net
2 collections and distributions and severance tax  collections and distributions.
3 (5)  Louisiana Economic Development' s website for economic development
4 incentives.
5 J.  The commissioner of administration may include other databases, or
6 templates and interfaces with new or existing  databases and reports, to provide
7 additional fiscal transparency  to the public.
8 §89.3.  I mplementation
9 A.  The commissioner of administration shall substantially  implement the
10 Louisiana Checkbook no later than J uly 1, 2019.
11 B.  Prior to the full implementation of the Louisiana Checkbook, the
12 commissioner of administration shall submit a quarterly  report to the state treasurer
13 and the Joint Legislative Committee on the Budget indicating  the status of the
14 implementation of the Louisiana Checkbook and the estimated completion dates of
15 components of the L ouisiana Checkbook.
16 Section 2.  This Act shall become effective upon signature by the governor or, if not
17 signed by the governor, upon expiration of the time for bills to become law without signature
18 by the g overnor, as provided by  Article I II, Section 18 of the Constitution of Louisiana.  If
19 vetoed by the governor and subsequently  approved by the legislature, this Act shall become
20 effective on the day  following  such approval.
DIGEST
The digest printed below was prepared by House Legislative Services.  It constitutes no part
of the legislative instrument.  The keyword, one-liner, abstract, and digest do not constitute
part of the law or proof or indicia of leg islative intent.  [ R.S. 1:13(B ) and 24:177(E)]
HB 510 Eng rossed 2018 Reg ular Session Barras
Abstract:   Establishes the Louisiana Checkbook as a centraliz ed, searchable website to
provide information, to provide fiscal transparency , and allow the public to obtain
fiscal information reg arding  the state.
Proposed law requires the commissioner of administrati on to take steps necessary  to fully
implement the LaGov statewide enterprise resource planning  financial system by Oct. 1,
2021.
Page 9 of 13
CODI NG:  Words in struck throug h type are deletions from existing  law; words underscored
are additions.
HLS 18RS-277 ENG ROSSED
HB NO. 510
Present law requires the commissioner of administration to establish and maintain a website
to post reports of state spending of the executive branch of state government contained in
the General Appropriation Act and other acts for each budg et unit.  
Proposed law requires that the expenditure database provide reports of state spending  of all
budg et units contained in the ex ecutive budg et.
Proposed law desig nates the website as the Louisiana Checkbook (checkbook) and requires
the website to be searchable, to have an easily identifiable Internet address, and a dedicated
link that is prominently  display ed on the home page of certain state governmen t websites. 
Proposed law requires that the website include features such as visual simplicity , charts and
graphs, a mobile and tablet mode, and the ability  to download data and share information on
social media.
Present law requires the commissioner of administration to consult with the Joint Legislative
Committee on the Budget (JLCB) in the development and specifications of the database to
be used for the website.
Proposed law deletes present law and instead requires the division of administration to
prepare quarterly reports for three fiscal years to the JLCB regarding  content chang es,
website usage, and disclosure of any agencies that do not provide information required by
law.
Proposed law directs all agencies, boards, commissions, departments, and institutions of
higher education of the state and its political subdivisions to furnish information, reports,
aid, services, and assistance as the commissioner of administration requests, all without any
cost or charg e.
Content
Proposed law requires the checkbook to contain the following  types of information:
(1)  Ex penditure Data
(2)  Contracts
(3)  State Employ ment and Salaries
(4)  B oards and Commissions
(5)  Public Debt and Pensions
(6)  Dedicated F unds
(7)  Performance Measurements
(8)  Education Ex penditure Data
(9)  Revenues and Credits
Proposed law authoriz es the commissioner of administration to include other databases, or
templates and interfaces  with existing  databases and reports, to provide additional fiscal
transparency .
Expenditure Data
Proposed law requires that the checkbook include an expendi ture database that is
electronically  searchable and contains expenditures by each budg et unit contained in the
executive budget.   The database shall allow users to search and aggregate expenditures
across multiple fiscal years by budg et unit and program, by individual vendor, and by
expenditure categ ory.  Users shall also be able to download information from any database
search.
Proposed law specifies that the database shall include  expenditures by categ ory and shall
include details of expenses charg ed to credit, debit, and purchase cards and related fees,
Page 10 of 13
CODI NG:  Words in struck throug h type are deletions from existing  law; words underscored
are additions.
HLS 18RS-277 ENG ROSSED
HB NO. 510
mandated interag ency payments, contributions to retirement systems and benefits plans, and
revenue sharing  and aid to other levels of government, including  minimum founda tion
program transfers.
Proposed law requires certain information for each expenditure where available, including
the name of the entity  making  the expenditure, the name of the recipient, the type and
purpose, the manner of payment, the source, and, for contracts, a link to information in the
contracts database.
Proposed law specifies that certain information not be included, such as addresses, tax
payment data, payments of state assistance, protected health information, information 
subject to attorne y-client privileg e, information related to undercover or intellig ence
operations by law enforcement, and information that is confidential under state or federal
laws, rules, and reg ulations.
Contract Inf ormation
Present law requires the commissioner of administration to maintain a website to post
specified information regarding  state contracts, including  the contract amount, a description
of the contract, the dates of the contract, the name of the contracting  agency, and the name
and location of the contractor.
Proposed law requires that the checkbook include an electronically  searchable contract
database containing  information similar to what is required in present law.
Proposed law requires certain information related to contracts that is required under present
law also be made available on the checkbook including  the following :
(a) An annual report of all professional, personal, consulting , social services, and other
contracts over which the office of state procurement has authority , including  a report
of all contracts awarded without competitive bidding , and information on contracts
contained in the annual report. (R.S. 39:1357)   
(b) A report at the end of each month submitted to the JLCB summariz ing each contract
awarded that month over which the office of state procureme nt has power and
authority .
(c) The annual report the commissioner of administration prepares on the progress of the
Hudson Initiative, including  the total number and dollar value of contracts awarded
to small entrepreneurships and the number of contracts that included a good faith
small entrepreneurship subcontracting  plan.
(d) The annual report the commissioner of administration prepares on the progress of the
Veteran Initiative, including  the total number and dollar value of contracts awarded
to veteran and service-connected  disabled veteran-owned small entrepreneurships
and the number of contracts that included a good faith subcontracting  plan for such
entrepreneurships.
State Em ploym ent and Salaries
Proposed law  requires that the checkbook contain an electronically   searchable employ ment
and salaries database.  The database shall contain salary  and compensation information for
all state employ ees.
Proposed law requires the database to allow users to search and aggregate records by agency
and job title and to download information y ielded by  a search of the database.
Page 11 of 13
CODI NG:  Words in struck throug h type are deletions from existing  law; words underscored
are additions.
HLS 18RS-277 ENG ROSSED
HB NO. 510
Proposed law requires that the checkbook contain information regarding  the number of
authoriz ed positions and the number of vacant positions for each budg et unit contained in
the General Appropriation Act and the Ancillary  Appropriation Act.
Boards and Com missions
Present law requires boards, commissions, and like entities to submit certain information
regarding  membership, salaries, and financial and budg et information to the commissioner
of administration (R.S. 49:1302) and the leg islative auditor (R.S. 24:513.2).
Proposed law requires that the checkbook contain an electronically  searchable database of
the membership, employ ee, and financial and budg et information that boards, commissions,
and like entities are required to submit to the commissioner of administration and to the
legislative auditor. 
Proposed law requires that the checkbook provide access to the  annual report that the
legislative auditor is required to submit under present law (R.S. 24:513.2(E)) to the
legislature on financial and personnel information on boards, commissions, and like entities.
Public Debt and P ensions
Proposed law requires that the checkbook contain access to an electronically  searchable state
debt database, to be established and maintained by the state treasurer.  The database shall 
include  information on public debt and pensions, including  amounts and categ ories of state
debt, amounts and categ ories of local debt backed by the state, costs of debt service, and
sources of funding .  Requires all agencies, boards, commissions, and departments of the state
to furnish information, reports, aid, services, and assistance to the extent allowed by law, as
may be requested by the treasurer to comply  with proposed law, all without any cost or
charg e.
Dedicated F unds
Present law (R.S. 49:308.5(B )) requires the commissioner of administration to provide
access to an electronic database of annual reports of all entities and activities supported by
special treasury  funds.
Proposed law requires that the checkbook include access to an electronically  searchable
dedicated funds database that includes the database required by  present law.
Present law (R.S. 49:308.3(E)) requires the state treasurer to submit an annual report to the
JLCB and the leg islative fiscal office a report on special treasury  funds.
Proposed law requires that the checkbook provide access to the report required under present
law.
Performance Measurem ents
Proposed law requires that the checkbook include or provide access to the La. Performance
Accountability  System, the electronic performance database that tracks performance
standards, interim quarterly  performance targets, and actual performance information for
executive branch departments and agencies required under the La. Government Performance
and Accountability  Act.
Education Spending
Proposed law requires that the checkbook include or provide access to the revenue and
expenditure data on federal, state, and local fiscal matters maintained by  the state Dept. of
Education on its website.
Page 12 of 13
CODI NG:  Words in struck throug h type are deletions from existing  law; words underscored
are additions.
HLS 18RS-277 ENG ROSSED
HB NO. 510
Revenues and Credits
Proposed law requires that the checkbook include or provide access to certain information
related to revenues on which expenditures are based, including  the official forecast and the
incentive expenditure forecast adopted by the Revenue Estimating  Conference; report s on
tax collection and tax exemptions prepared by the Dept. of Revenue; and the La. Economic
Development' s website for economic development incentives. 
Implem entation
Proposed law  requires the commissioner of administration to substantially  implement the
checkbook no later than  July 1, 2019.  Requires the commissioner of administration to
report to the state treasurer and the J LCB  quarterly  on the status of implementation of the
checkbook and the estimated completion dates of its components prior to full
implementation.
Effective upon sig nature of g overnor or lapse of time for g ubernatorial action.
(Amends R.S. 39:6(C); Adds R.S. 39:89.1-89.3)
Page 13 of 13
CODI NG:  Words in struck throug h type are deletions from existing  law; words underscored
are additions.
